# OpenPLC Editor - KauriIOT Edition (base)
OpenPLC Editor - IDE capable of creating programs for the OpenPLC Runtime. This edition supports PLC developed in Kauri IOT company.

OpenPLC Editor repository contains modified versions of [Beremiz](https://github.com/beremiz/beremiz) (GPLv2 and LGPLv2) and [MatIEC](https://github.com/beremiz/matiec) (GPLv3) projects.

The codebase has been updated to Python3 and wxPython Phoenix.

It's platform independent base that can can be configured to run on different platforms. Tested on Windows and Ubuntu 22.04.

You can run app from Beremiz.py file.

## Requirements
- `Python 3.9`
- `python packages from requirements.txt`
- `make utils`
- `C/C++ compiler to use matiec`
- `arm-none-eabi-gcc`

## Changes in relation to the OpenPLC Editor
- Changed the app logo (`brz.ico`, `editor/images/brz.logo`) and startup banner (`editor/images/about_brz_logo.png`).
- Matiec was divided into two parts. One part, included here, contains platform-independent PLC libraries and functional blocks logic written in C and ST PLC languages (`matiec/lib`). The second part contains the compiled Matiec code for the platform, which needs to be added to the Matiec folder (`iec2c.exe` and `iec2iec.exe` for example (Windows)).
- Removed Arduino library, libraries to work with P1AM, Sequent Microsystems and Jaguar modules from matiec and `editor/plcopen/definitions.py` due to using different platform.
- Added MODBUS, RS485, MQTT libraries (see **Adding new functional blocks** section).
- Removed unsupported examples from the `editor/examples` folder.
- Removed the `editor/arduino` and `editor/arduino_ext` folders, as well as `editor/dialogs/ArduinoUploadDialog.py` (because of this the `editor/ProjectController` file was changed).
- Added the `editor/kauri_parser` folder, which contains scripts and parts of source files to compile the PLC program for devices with a PLC runtime environment. Also it contains matiec modified functional blocks functions realizations which uses platform specific api and libraries (MODBUS library, for example). It contains following files:
    - The `builder.py` script is used to build project and send it to device (it runs from `editor/dialogs/KauriUploadDialog.py`).
    - The `Sources` folder with two subfolders: `Common` and `PLCSpecified`. First of them contains platform independent source files (`Common/Generated` contains generated by `builder.py` files, `Common/MatiecBased` contains PLC libraries C source files). Second contains source files specific for PLC devices.
    - The `hals.json` describes each used device characteristic in json format.
    - The `settings.json` stores last device configuration settings in json format.
- Added `editor/dialogs/KauriUploadDialog.py` for easy setup of PLC device configuration and transferring PLC programs to devices. It uses `editor/kauri_parser/hals.json` to configure window for chosen device and `editor/kauri_parser/settings.json` to restore last entered configuration settings (see file docstring comments for realization details).
- Changed `editor/BeremizIDE.py`:
    - Modified the `RefreshTitle` function, now it set app name to **OpenPLC Editor (KauriIOT Edition)** instead of **OpenPLC Editor**.
    - Modified the `__init_execute_path` function to set PATH variable on Windows with build tools.
- Changed `editor/ProjectController`:
    - Fixed the `_Generate_runtime` function to support working with library functional blocks using byte, bool, or word arrays of size 128.
    - Modified the `findCmd` function to search the Matiec folder within its parent parent folder.
    - Changed the `_generateArduino` method to the `_generateKauri`, which is bound to the `Transfer program to PLC` button and runs `KauriUploadDialog` (before button pressing ran `editor/dialogs/ArduinoUploadDialog.py`). Changed import from `from dialogs import ArduinoUploadDialog` to `from dialogs import KauriUploadDialog`.
    - Added the `_debugPLCWithoutBuild` function for use after program transfer using `KauriUploadDialog`, allowing for debugging without pressing the `Live debug remote PLC` button if needed.
    - Updated the `_debugPLC` function to utilize the `_debugPLCWithoutBuild` function.
    - Removed the button responsible for generating firmware for OpenPLC Runtime due to the use of our own runtime environment with a different firmware representation.
- Changed `editor/dialogs/DebuggerRemoteConnDialog.py`, `editor/modbus/mb_utils.py` and `editor/modbus/web_settings.py` to support baudrate equal to 256000 bod.

## Adding new functional blocks
Different ways to add new functional blocks described [here](https://autonomylogic.com/docs/3-3-adding-new-blocks-to-openplc-editors-library/). Further comments will be given for Manual Approach:
- To generate .xml, MatIEC lib file and C code files can be used new OpenPLC Editor project with integrated functinal block creation tool. After project building you can extract .xml data from `{build folder}/plc.xml` folder, .st data from `{build folder}/build/plc.st` file and C code data from `{build folder}/build/POUS.h` and `{build folder}/build/POUS.c`.
- The .st files should be put only into `matiec/lib` folder. The .xml files must be put `editor/plcopen` folder to use library blocks in editor window.
- The C sourse files should be put into `matiec/lib/C` folder and `editor/kauri_parser/Sources/Common/MatiecBased`. First source location is used to compile program for simulation and debugging program comparing and visualization. Second source location is used to compile program for PLC device (they can be different from first location's sources and use platform specific libraries).

